Databricks Exam Guide
Databricks Certiﬁed
Data Engineer Professional

Provide Exam Guide Feedback

Purpose of this Exam Guide
This exam guide gives you an overview of the Databricks Certiﬁed Data Engineer Professional
exam and what it covers to help you determine your exam readiness. This document will get
updated anytime there are any changes to an exam (and when those changes will take effect
on an exam), so that you can be prepared. Please check back two weeks before your exam
to ensure you have the most current version. This version covers the currently live version
as of November 30, 2025.

Audience Description
The Databricks Certiﬁed Data Engineering Professional exam validates a candidate's advanced
skills in building, optimizing, and maintaining production-grade data engineering solutions on the
Databricks Data Intelligence Platform. Successful candidates demonstrate expertise across core
platform features such as Delta Lake, Unity Catalog, Auto Loader, Lakeﬂow Spark Declarative
Pipelines,  Databricks Compute (including serverless), Lakeﬂow Jobs and the Medallion
Architecture. This Certiﬁcation assesses the ability to design secure, reliable, and cost-effective
ETL Pipelines, process complex data from diverse sources using Python and SQL, and apply best
practices in schema management, observability, governance, and performance optimization.
Candidates are also tested on implementing streaming workloads, orchestrating workﬂows,
leveraging DevOps &  CI/CD, and deploying with tools like the Databricks CLI, REST API, and Asset
Bundles. Individuals who pass this certiﬁcation exam can be expected to complete advanced
data engineering tasks using Databricks and its associated tools.

  About the Exam

●  Number of items: 59 scored multiple-choice questions
●  Time limit: 120 minutes
●  Registration fee: USD 200, plus applicable taxes as required per local law
●  Delivery method: Online Proctored and test center proctored
●  Test Aides: No Test Aides provided, including API Documentation.
●  Prerequisite: None is required; related course attendance and one year of hands-on

experience in Data Engineering tasks outlined in the exam guide are highly
recommended.
●  Validity: 2 years
●  Recertiﬁcation:  Recertiﬁcation is required every two years to maintain your certiﬁed
status. To recertify, you must take the current version of the exam. Please review the
“Getting Ready for the Exam” section below to prepare for your recertiﬁcation exam.

●  Unscored Content: Exams may include unscored items to gather statistical information
for future use. These items are not identiﬁed on the form and do not impact your score,
and additional time is factored into account for this content.

Recommended Training

Instructor-led: Advanced Data Engineering With Databricks

●
●  Self-paced (available in Databricks Academy):

○  Databricks Streaming and Lakeﬂow Spark Declarative Pipelines
○  Databricks Data Privacy
○  Databricks Performance Optimization
○  Automated Deployment with Databricks Asset Bundle

Exam outline
Section 1: Developing Code for Data Processing using Python and SQL

●  Using Python and Tools for development

●  Design and implement a scalable Python project structure optimized for

Databricks Asset Bundles (DABs), enabling modular development, deployment
automation, and CI/CD integration.

●  Manage and troubleshoot external third-party library installations and

dependencies in Databricks, including PyPI packages, local wheels, and source
archives.

●  Develop User-Deﬁned Functions (UDFs) using Pandas/Python UDF.

●  Building and Testing an ETL pipeline with Lakeﬂow Spark Declarative Pipelines, SQL, and

Apache Spark on the Databricks Platform

●  Build and manage reliable, production-ready data pipelines for batch and
streaming data using Lakeﬂow Spark Declarative Pipelines and Autoloader.

●  Create and Automate ETL workloads using Jobs via UI/APIs/CLI.
●  Explain the advantages and disadvantages of streaming tables compared to

materialized views.

●  Use APPLY CHANGES APIs to simplify CDC in Lakeﬂow Spark Declarative

Pipelines.

●  Compare Spark Structured Streaming and Lakeﬂow Spark Declarative Pipelines to

determine the optimal approach for building scalable ETL pipelines.

●  Create a pipeline component that uses control ﬂow operators (e.g., if/else,

for/each, etc.).

●  Choose the appropriate conﬁgs for environments and dependencies,  high
memory for notebook tasks, and auto-optimization to disallow retries.

●  Develop unit and integration tests using assertDataFrameEqual,

assertSchemaEqual,  DataFrame.transform, and testing frameworks, to ensure
code correctness, including a built-in debugger.

 Section 2: Data Ingestion & Acquisition:

 formats including Delta Lake, Parquet, ORC, AVRO, JSON, CSV, XML, Text and Binary from

●  Design and implement data ingestion pipelines to efﬁciently ingest a variety of data
●
●  diverse sources such as message buses and cloud storage.
●  Create an append-only data pipeline capable of handling both batch and streaming

data using Delta.

 Section 3: Data Transformation, Cleansing, and Quality

●  Write efﬁcient Spark SQL and PySpark code to apply advanced data transformations,

including window functions, joins, and aggregations, to manipulate and analyze large
Datasets.

●  Develop a quarantining process for bad data with Lakeﬂow Spark Declarative Pipelines,

or autoloader in classic jobs.

Section 4: Data Sharing and Federation

●  Demonstrate delta sharing securely between Databricks deployments using Databricks
to Databricks Sharing (D2D) or to external platforms using the open sharing protocol
(D2O).

●  Conﬁgure Lakehouse Federation with proper governance across the supported source

Systems.

●  Use Delta Share to share live data from Lakehouse to any computing platform.

 Section 5: Monitoring and Alerting

●  Monitoring

○  Use system tables for observability over resource utilization, cost, auditing and

workload monitoring.

○  Use Query Proﬁler UI and Spark UI to monitor workloads.
○  Use the Databricks REST APIs/Databricks CLI for monitoring jobs and pipelines.
○  Use Lakeﬂow Spark Declarative Pipelines Event Logs to monitor pipelines.

●  Alerting

○  Use SQL Alerts to monitor data quality.
○  Use the Lakeﬂow Jobs UI and Jobs API to set up notiﬁcations for job status and

performance issues.

    Section 6: Cost & Performance Optimisation

●  Understand how / why using Unity Catalog managed tables reduces operations
●  Overhead and maintenance burden.
●  Understand delta optimization techniques, such as deletion vectors and liquid

clustering.

●  Understand the optimization techniques used by Databricks to ensure the performance

of queries on large datasets (data skipping, ﬁle pruning, etc.).

●  Apply Change Data Feed (CDF) to address speciﬁc limitations of streaming tables and

enhance latency.

●  Use the query proﬁle to analyze the query and identify bottlenecks, such as bad data

skipping, inefﬁcient types of joins, and data shufﬂing.

 Section 7: Ensuring Data Security and Compliance

●  Applying Data Security mechanisms.

○  Use ACLs to secure Workspace Objects, enforcing the principle of least privilege,

including enforcing principles like least privilege, policy enforcement.
○  Use row ﬁlters and column masks to ﬁlter and mask sensitive table data.
○  Apply anonymization and pseudonymization methods, such as Hashing,
Tokenization, Suppression, and generalisation, to conﬁdential data.

●  Ensuring Compliance

○

Implement a compliant batch & streaming pipeline that detects and applies
masking of PII to ensure data privacy.

○  Develop a data purging solution ensuring compliance with data retention policies.

 Section 8: Data Governance

●  Create and add descriptions/metadata about enterprise data to make it more

discoverable.

●  Demonstrate understanding of Unity Catalog permission inheritance model.

 Section 9: Debugging and Deploying
●  Debugging and Troubleshooting

○

Identify pertinent diagnostic information using Spark UI, cluster logs, system
tables, and query proﬁles to troubleshoot errors.

○  Analyze the errors and remediate the failed job runs with job repairs and

parameter overrides.

○  Use Lakeﬂow Spark Declarative Pipelines event logs and the Spark UI to debug

Lakeﬂow Spark Declarative Pipelines and Spark pipelines.

●  Deploying CI/CD

○  Build and deploy Databricks resources using Databricks Asset Bundles.
○  Conﬁgure and integrate with Git-based CI/CD workﬂows using Databricks Git

Folders for notebook and code deployment.

Section 10: Data Modelling

●  Design and implement scalable data models using Delta Lake to manage large datasets.
●  Simplify data layout decisions and optimize query performance using Liquid Clustering.
●
●  Design Dimensional Models for analytical workloads, ensuring efﬁcient querying and

Identify the beneﬁts of using liquid Clustering over Partitioning and ZOrder.

aggregation.

Sample Questions
These questions are retired from a previous version of the exam. The purpose is to show you
the objectives as they are stated on the exam guide, and give you a sample question that aligns
with the objective. The exam guide lists the objectives that could be covered on an exam. The
best way to prepare for a certiﬁcation exam is to review the exam outline in the exam guide.

Question 1
Objective: Understand Delta Lake's catalog- metastore operations and ACID compliance
behaviour.

A Delta Lake table was created with the following query:

CREATE TABLE prod.sales_by_stor
USING DELTA
LOCATION "/mnt/prod/sales_by_store"

Realizing that the original query had a typographical error, the code below was executed:

ALTER TABLE prod.sales_by_stor RENAME TO prod.sales_by_store

Which result will occur after running the second command?

A.
B.
C.
D.

All related ﬁles and metadata are dropped and recreated in a single ACID transaction.
The table name change is recorded in the Delta transaction log.
A new Delta transaction log is created for the renamed table..
The table reference in the metastore is updated.

Question 2
Objective: Understand Spark Structured Streaming behaviour and determine the optimal
approach for production SLA-ready pipelines.

A Structured Streaming job deployed to production has been experiencing delays during peak
hours of the day. Currently, during normal execution, each microbatch of data is processed in
under 3 seconds. During peak hours of the day, execution time for each microbatch becomes
very inconsistent, sometimes exceeding 30 seconds. The streaming write is currently
conﬁgured with a 10-second trigger interval.

Holding all other variables constant and assuming records need to be processed in less than 10
seconds, which adjustment will meet the requirement?

A.

Use the trigger once option and conﬁgure a Databricks job to execute the query every 8
seconds; this ensures all backlogged records are processed with each batch.
B.  Decrease the trigger interval to 5 seconds; triggering batches more frequently may

prevent records from backing up and large batches from causing a spill.

C.  Decrease the trigger interval to 5 seconds; triggering batches more frequently allows

D.

idle executors to begin processing the next batch while longer-running tasks from
previous batches ﬁnish.
The trigger interval cannot be modiﬁed without modifying the checkpoint directory; to
maintain the current stream state, increase the number of shufﬂe partitions to maximize
parallelism.

Question 3
Objective: Design and implement scalable data models using Delta Lake to manage large
datasets.

A Delta Lake table representing metadata about content posts from users has the following
schema:

user_id LONG, post_text STRING, post_id STRING, longitude FLOAT,
latitude FLOAT, post_time TIMESTAMP, date DATE

Based on the above schema, which column is a good candidate for partitioning the Delta Table?

A.  post_id
B.  post_time
C.  date
D.  user_id

Question 4
Objective: Demonstrate understanding of Unity Catalog permission inheritance model

A table named user_ltv is being used to create a view that will be used by data analysts on
various teams. Users in the workspace are conﬁgured into groups, which are used for setting up
data access using ACLs.

The user_ltv table has the following schema:

email STRING, age INT, ltv INT

The following view deﬁnition is executed:

CREATE VIEW email_ltv AS
SELECT
CASE WHEN
  is_member('marketing') THEN email
  ELSE 'REDACTED'
END AS email,
ltv
FROM user_ltv

An analyst who is not a member of the marketing group executes the following query:

SELECT * FROM email_ltv

What will be the result of this query?

A.

B.

C.

D.

Only the email and ltv columns will be returned; the email column will contain the
string "REDACTED" in each row.
Three columns will be returned, but one column will be named "REDACTED" and
contain only null values.
Only the email and ltv columns will be returned; the email column will contain all
null values.
The email and ltv columns will be returned with the values in user_ltv.

Question 5
Objective- Choose the appropriate conﬁgs for environments and dependencies, high memory
for notebook tasks and auto-optimization to disallow retries.

The business reporting team requires that data for their dashboards be updated every hour.
The total processing time for the pipeline, which extracts, transforms, and loads data for its
runs, is 10 minutes.

Assuming normal operating conditions, which conﬁguration will meet their service-level
agreement requirements with the lowest cost?

A.
            cluster.
B.
C.
  D.

Schedule a job to execute the pipeline once an hour on a dedicated interactive

Schedule a job to execute the pipeline once an hour on a new job cluster.
Schedule a Structured Streaming job with a trigger interval of 60 minutes.
Conﬁgure a job that executes every time new data lands in a given directory.

Question 6
Objective- Understand the Notebook development environment, variable management and
creating secure, conﬁgurable code.

The security team is exploring whether the Databricks secrets module can be leveraged for
connecting to an external database.

After testing the code with all Python variables being deﬁned with strings, they upload the
password to the secrets module and conﬁgure the correct permissions for the currently active
user. They modify their code to the following (leaving all other variables unchanged).

password = dbutils.secrets.get(scope="db_creds", key="jdbc_password")

print(password)

df = (spark
  .read
  .format("jdbc")

  .option("url", connection)
  .option("dbtable", tablename)
  .option("user", username)
  .option("password", password)
  )

What will happen when this code is executed?

A.  The connection to the external table will succeed; the string "REDACTED" will be printed.

     B.   The connection to the external table will succeed; the string value of the password will
           be printed in plain text.
     C..  An interactive input box will appear in the notebook; if the right password is
           provided, the connection will succeed, and the password will be printed in plain
           text.
     D.   An interactive input box will appear in the notebook; if the right password is
           provided, the connection will succeed, and the encoded password will be saved to
           DBFS.

Question 7
Objective: Understand the optimization techniques used by Databricks to ensure performance
of queries on large datasets (data skipping, ﬁle pruning, etc)

A data ingestion task requires a 1-TB JSON dataset to be written out to Parquet with a target
part-ﬁle size of 512 MB. Because Parquet is being used instead of Delta Lake, built-in ﬁle-sizing
features such as Auto-Optimize & Auto-Compaction cannot be used.

Which approach will work without rearranging the data?

A.

Ingest the data, execute the narrow transformations, repartition to 2,048 partitions
(1TB*1024*1024/512), and then write to Parquet.

B.  Set spark.sql.adaptive.advisoryPartitionSizeInBytes to 512 MB, ingest the

data, execute the narrow transformations, coalesce to 2,048 partitions
(1TB*1024*1024/512), and then write to Parquet.

C.  Set spark.sql.files.maxPartitionBytes to 512 MB, ingest the data, execute the

narrow transformations, and then write to Parquet.

D.  Set spark.sql.shuffle.partitions to 2,048 partitions (1TB*1024*1024/512), ingest
the data, execute the narrow transformations, optimize the data by sorting it (which
automatically repartitions the data), and then write to Parquet.

Question 8
Objective: Apply Delta Lake clone to learn how shallow and deep clones interact with
source/target tables.

The marketing team wants to share data in an aggregate table with the sales organization, but
the ﬁeld names used by the teams do not match, and a number of marketing-speciﬁc ﬁelds
have not been approved for the sales organization.

Which solution addresses the situation while emphasizing simplicity?

A.  Create a view on the marketing table selecting only those ﬁelds approved for the sales
team; alias the names of any ﬁelds that should be standardized to the sales naming
conventions.

B.  Create a new table with the required schema and use Delta Lake's DEEP CLONE

functionality to sync up changes committed to one table to the corresponding table.
C.  Use a CTAS statement to create a derivative table from the marketing table, and then

conﬁgure a production job to propagate the changes.

D.  Add a parallel table write to the current production pipeline, updating a new sales table

that varies as required from the marketing table.

Question 9
Objective: Create a multi-task job with multiple dependencies.

A Databricks job has been conﬁgured with three tasks, each of which is a Databricks notebook.
Task A does not depend on other tasks. Tasks B and C run in parallel, with each having a serial
dependency on task A.

What will be the resulting state if tasks A and B complete successfully but task C fails during a
scheduled run?

A.  All logic expressed in the notebook associated with tasks A and B will have been

successfully completed; some operations in task C may have been completed
successfully.

B.  Unless all tasks are completed successfully, no changes will be committed to the
Lakehouse; because task C failed, all commits will be rolled back automatically.

C.  All logic expressed in the notebook associated with tasks A and B will have been

successfully completed; any changes made in task C will be rolled back due to task
failure.

D.  Because all tasks are managed as a dependency graph, no changes will be committed to

the Lakehouse until all tasks have successfully been completed.

Answers

Question 1:  D
Question 2: B
Question 3: C
Question 4: A
Question 5: B
Question 6: A
Question 7: C
Question 8: A
Question 9 :A

