Databricks Exam Guide
Databricks Certiﬁed
Data Analyst Associate
Provide Exam Guide Feedback
Purpose of this Exam Guide
This exam guide gives you an overview of the Databricks Certiﬁed Data Analyst Associate exam
and what it covers to help you determine your exam readiness. This version covers the current
version as of Oct 30, 2025. Please check back two weeks before you take your exam to make
sure you have the most current version.
Audience Description
The Databricks Certiﬁed Data Analyst Associate exam evaluates a candidate's proﬁciency with the
Databricks Data Intelligence Platform, assessing their ability to manage data with Unity Catalog -
this includes discovering, querying, cleaning, and managing certiﬁed datasets, import Data by
utilizing various methods such as the UI, S3 ingestion, Delta Sharing for external systems, API-driven
intake, Auto Loader, and the Marketplace feature, and executing and optimizing queries for Data
Analysis - including creating views, performing aggregate operations, combining tables with joins,
ﬁltering, sorting, and analyzing queries using auditing, history, logs, and Liquid clustering features.
Additionally, the exam covers the basics of working with Dashboards and Visualisations,
understanding the fundamentals of developing, sharing, and maintaining AI/BI Genie spaces within
Databricks, data modelling with Databricks SQL, and securing data by adhering to best practices
for data storage and management.  Individuals who pass this certiﬁcation exam can be expected
to complete basic Data Analytics tasks, such as managing data, analyzing data, and utilizing
Dashboards.
About the Exam
●  Number of items: 45 scored multiple-choice questions
●  Time Limit: 90 minutes
●  Delivery method: Online proctored or test center proctored
●  Prerequisite: None is required. None is required; related course attendance and six months
of hands-on experience as a Data Analyst are highly recommended.
●  Validity: 2 years
●  Recertiﬁcation: Recertiﬁcation is required every two years to maintain your certiﬁed status.
To recertify, you must take the full exam that is currently live.
●  Unscored questions: Exams may include unscored questions to gather statistical
information for future use. These questions are not identiﬁed on the form and do not
impact your score. Additional time is factored into the exams to account for these
questions.
Recommended Training
Instructor-led: Data Analysis with Databricks
●
●  Self-paced (available in Databricks Academy): Data Analysis with Databricks
This self-paced course will soon be replaced with the following two modules.
○  AI/BI for Data Analysts
○  SQL Analytics on Databricks
Exam Outline
Section 1: Understanding of Databricks Data Intelligence Platform
●  Describe the core components of the Databricks Intelligence Platform, including
Mosaic AI, DeltaLive tables, Lakeﬂow Jobs, Data Intelligence Engine, Delta Lake, Unity
Catalog, and Databricks SQL.
●  Understand catalogs, schemas, managed and external tables, access controls, views,
certiﬁed tables, and lineage within the Catalog Explorer interface.
●  Describe the role and features of Databricks Marketplace.
Section 2: Managing Data
●  Use Unity Catalog to discover, query, and manage certiﬁed datasets.
●  Use the Catalog Explorer to tag a data asset and view its lineage.
●  Perform data cleaning on Unity Catalog Tables in SQL, including removing invalid data
or handling missing values.
Section 3: Importing Data
●  Explain the approaches for bringing data into Databricks, covering ingestion from S3,
data sharing with external systems via Delta Sharing, API-driven data intake, the Auto
Loader feature, and Marketplace.
●  Use the Databricks Workspace UI to upload a data ﬁle to the platform.
Section 4: Executing queries using Databricks SQL and Databricks SQL Warehouses
●  Utilize Databricks Assistant within a Notebook or SQL Editor to facilitate query
writing and debugging.
●  Explain the role a SQL Warehouse plays in query execution.
●  Querying cross-system analytics by joining data from a Delta table and a federated
data source.
●  Create a materialized view, including knowing when to use Streaming Tables and
Materialized Views, and differentiate between dynamic and materialized views.
●  Perform aggregate operations such as count, approximate count distinct, mean, and
summary statistics.
●  Write queries to combine tables using various join operations (inner, left, right, and
so on) with single or multiple keys, as well as set operations like union and union all,
including the differences between the joins (inner, left, right, and so on).
●  Perform sorting and ﬁltering operations on a table.
●  Create managed tables and external tables, including creating tables by joining data
from multiple sources (e.g., CSV, Parquet, Delta tables) to create uniﬁed datasets,
including Unity Catalog.
●  Use Delta Lake's time travel to access and query historical data versions.
Section 5: Analyzing Queries
●  Understand the Features, Beneﬁts, and Supported Workloads of Photon.
●
Identify poorly performing queries in the Databricks Intelligence platform, such as
Query Insights, Query Proﬁler log, etc.
●  Utilize Delta Lake to audit and view history, validate results, and compare historical
results or trends.
●  Utilize query history and caching to reduce development time and query latency
●  Apply Liquid Clustering to improve query speed when ﬁltering large tables on
speciﬁc columns.
●  Fix a query to achieve the desired results.
Section 6: Working with Dashboards and Visualizations in Databricks
●  Build dashboards using AI/BI Dashboards, including multi-tabs/page layouts, multiple
data sources/datasets, and widgets (visualizations, text, images).
●  Create visualizations in notebooks and the SQL editor.
●  Work with parameters in SQL queries and dashboards, including deﬁning,
conﬁguring, and testing parameters.
●  Conﬁgure permissions through the UI to share dashboards with workspace
users/groups, external users through shareable links, and embed dashboards in
external apps.
●  Schedule an automatic dashboard refresh.
●  Conﬁgure an alert with a desired threshold and destination.
●
Identify the effective visualization type to communicate insights clearly.
Section 7: Developing, Sharing, and Maintaining AI/BI Genie spaces
●  Describe the purpose, key features, and components of AI/BI Genie spaces.
●  Create Genie spaces by deﬁning reasonable sample questions and domain-speciﬁc
instructions, choosing SQL warehouses, curating Unity Catalog datasets (tables,
views...), and vetting queries as Trusted Assets.
●  Assign permissions via the UI and distribute Genie spaces using embedded links and
external app integrations.
●  Optimize AI/BI Genie spaces by tracking user questions, response accuracy, and
feedback; updating instructions and trusted assets based on stakeholder input;
validating accuracy with benchmarks; refreshing Unity Catalog metadata.
Section 8: Data Modeling with Databricks SQL
●  Apply industry-standard data modeling techniques, such as star, snowﬂake, and
data vault schemas, to analytical workloads.
●  Understand how industry-standard models align with the Medallion Architecture.
Section 9: Securing Data
●  Use Unity Catalog roles and sharing settings to ensure workspace objects are
secure.
●  Understand how the 3-level namespace(Catalog / Schema / Tables or Volumes)
works in the Unity Catalog.
●  Apply best practices for storage and management to ensure data security, including
table ownership and PII protection.
Sample Questions
These questions are similar to actual question items and give you a general sense of how questions
are asked on this exam.  They include exam objectives as they are stated in the exam guide and
give you a sample question that aligns with the objective. The exam guide lists all of the objectives
that could be covered on an exam. The best way to prepare for a certiﬁcation exam is to review the
exam outline in the exam guide.
Question 1
Objective: Perform aggregate operations such as count, approximate count distinct, mean, and
summary statistics.
A data analyst working in a notebook needs to quickly understand the characteristics of a
customer dataset. The analyst wants to automatically generate insights such as data distributions,
potential quality issues, and summary statistics.
Which insights are automatically provided when using data preview features in a notebook?
A.  Row count and column names
B.  Summary statistics for numeric, string and date columns, along with histograms showing value
distributions for each column.
C.  Mean data type information, null counts and standard deviation calculation for numeric
columns only
D. Real-time performance metrics and queries execution statistics for the dataset
Question 2
Objective: Utilize Databricks Assistant within a Notebook or SQL Editor to facilitate query writing
and debugging.
A data analyst is struggling to understand why a complex SQL query is not returning the expected
results.
Which Databricks Assistant command should the analyst use for a step-by-step explanation of the
query and potential issues?
A. /help
B. /generate
C. /explain
D. /optimize
Question 3
Objective: Create a materialized view, including knowing when to use Streaming Tables and
Materialized Views, and differentiate between dynamic and materialized views.
A data analyst is planning a new analytics pipeline and needs to decide between using a Streaming
Table and a Materialized View for two different use cases:
Real-time analysis of continuously arriving sensor data.
Frequent, complex queries on static data for business intelligence dashboards.
Which Databricks table type should the analyst use?
A.  Use a Materialized View for real-time sensor data, and a Streaming Table for static business
intelligence queries.
B.  Use a Materialized View for both real-time sensor data and static business intelligence queries
to maximize the freshness of data.
C.  Use a Streaming Table for both real-time sensor data and static business intelligence queries to
simplify pipeline complexity.
D.  Use a Streaming Table for real-time analysis of continuously arriving sensor data, and a
Materialized View for frequent, complex queries on static data.
Question 4
Objective: Use Delta Lake's time travel to access and query historical data versions.
A data analyst attempts to query a Delta table as it existed 30 days ago, but receives an error.
What is the reason for this error?
A.  The table schema was updated after the target date, which prevents time travel to previous
versions.
B.  The data ﬁles and log ﬁles needed for that version were deleted by a VACUUM operation.
C.  The Delta table’s permissions were changed, which disables time travel functionality.
D.  The table was renamed, which removes access to historical versions.
Question 5
Objective: Conﬁgure an alert with a desired threshold and destination.
A data pipeline processes a high volume of incoming sensor readings. To prevent potential
equipment damage, the data analyst needs to be notiﬁed immediately if the average temperature
reported by these sensors within the last 15 minutes exceeds a critical threshold.
Which action should the analyst perform to implement this requirement?
A.  Set up a Databricks SQL Alert that runs a query calculating the 15‑minute average temperature,
triggers when the value exceeds the critical threshold, and sends instant notiﬁcations to the
desired channels (e.g., email, Slack).
B.  Create a Databricks Dashboard with a temperature chart and manually refresh it every 15
minutes to check if the reading exceeds the threshold.
C.  Use a Databricks Job to run a notebook periodically and review the output logs manually to
detect threshold breaches.
D.  Modify Databricks cluster Conﬁguration to automatically scale up resources or restart when
temperature metrics are high, with alert notiﬁcations every 15 minutes.
Question 6
Objective: Create managed tables and external tables, including creating tables by joining data
from multiple sources (e.g., CSV, Parquet, Delta tables) to create uniﬁed datasets, including Unity
Catalog.
A database administrator needs to set up an inventory tracking table, product_inventory, in
the warehouse_db schema. The table must include three integer columns (width, length, and
height) for tracking product dimensions. It should be created empty, and if it already exists, it
must be replaced while retaining table privileges and history.
Which SQL command accomplishes this requirement?
A. CREATE TABLE warehouse_db.product_inventory (width INT, length INT,
height INT) IF NOT EXISTS;
B. CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE warehouse_db.product_inventory (width INT,
length INT, height INT);
C. DROP TABLE warehouse_db.product_inventory; CREATE TABLE
warehouse_db.product_inventory (width INT, length INT, height INT);
D. CREATE EXTERNAL TABLE warehouse_db.product_inventory (width INT, length
INT, height INT) USING DELTA;
Question 7:
Objective: Fix a query to achieve the desired results.
A data analyst needs to determine the number of customers in each region. The following query
was written:
SELECT region, count(*) AS number_of_customers
FROM customers
ORDER BY region;
The query did NOT meet the analyst’s requirements.
What is the reason?
A. The query is missing a GROUP BY region clause.
B. The query is using ORDER BY, which is not allowed in an aggregation.
C. The query is missing a HAVING clause
D. The region column is selected, but it should only appear in the ORDER BY clause.
Question 8:
Objective: Work with parameters in SQL queries and dashboards, including deﬁning, conﬁguring,
and testing parameters.
A dashboard displays a bar chart. This bar chart is linked to a Date widget parameter.
What is the role of the Date widget parameter in this context?
A. It deﬁnes the start and end dates for the x-axis range of the bar chart.
B. It acts as a global ﬁlter, so all dashboard visualizations use the same date range.
C. Its start and end dates are used in a WHERE clause of the query that populates the bar chart
with data.
D. It is a static text display showing the current date range, but does not affect the visualizations.
Question 9
Objective: Understand catalogs, schemas, managed and external tables, access controls, views,
certiﬁed tables, and lineage within the Catalog Explorer interface.
A database administrator executes the given query on a 12 GB table in their data warehouse:
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS customer_orders;
After 10 days, running the SHOW TABLES command no longer displays the table. However, the
underlying data ﬁles in the storage layer remain unchanged in the ﬁle system.
What explains this behavior?
A. The table was conﬁgured as a managed table with automatic cleanup disabled
B. The table was deﬁned as an external table referencing data in a separate storage location
C. The table exceeded the 10 GB threshold for automatic data ﬁle deletion
D. The table was created without specifying a default storage location
Question 10
Objective: Utilize Query History and caching to reduce development time and query latency.
Which two are features of the Query History in Databricks?
A. Query history only tracks SQL queries executed through notebooks, not through SQL
warehouses
B. It is possible to  ﬁlter query history by user, date range, compute resources, and query status to
locate speciﬁc patterns
C. Query history automatically deletes all records after 24 hours to save storage space
D. The query history interface provides detailed execution metrics, including query duration and
I/O performance
E. Query history is only available for premium Databricks workspaces with enterprise licensing
Answers
B
C
D
B
A
B
7.  A
8.  C
9.  B
10.  B and D